Now in this video, we are gonna take a
look at handling exceptions and one
thing that we weren't handling is if we
do something not found. So if we pass on
an ID value that is not found, I had to do in
there to implement this. And so what I've
done is I've created a ResourceNotFoundException and this is a custom
exception class that we're gonna be
utilizing inside of our service. Now we
want our controllers to return back a
404 error code. We wanna make sure
that it returns back if not found.
So that does return back the
HttpStatus code of 404. So we want to make
sure that our controllers are doing that.
One way we can do that is, this
is just like Spring MVC, all this is
Spring MVC, but just like we did before,
we can add in ControllerAdvice.
So let's come in here. And I'm gonna
create a new Java class. And now, we're
gonna annotate it with @ControllerAdvice. So this is gonna get invoked
when we have a problem. And actually,
We'll refactor this. Got a little typo
there. And what we wanna do is add an
ExceptionHandler here.
So adding in that, and we'll annotate
it to take in our ResourceNotFoundException.class.
And one thing that we do wanna
do is also extend out in the Spring
class ResponseEntityExceptionHandler.
And we'll go ahead and take a look at
that. So this is a convenient base class
for us to leverage, and gives us a lot of
out-of-the-box exception handling for
Spring MVC. So this is used internally to
Spring. So we're just gonna
externalize that, and add on top of it,
the things that we wanna provide.
So pretty simple implementation there. So
now, let's go ahead and run our test. And
we should see that those tests will pass
now. Now, we have this wired up and they
did not pass all controllers. I
realized I forgot to add in. So now, we're
gonna need to add that to both of them.
So this adds in the ExceptionHandler
for us. I mean, I'm just gonna copy that
over. Now, let's go ahead and run these
again. And we should see our test pass. So
we are all green there. Our handler is
working properly. So let's go ahead and
start this up, and we'll take a look at
it in Postman. I'm gonna start this
up. So let's go ahead and send that get.
You can see that it's still functioning,
and let's do it get 55, and we still get
an error. That is because we did not
implement that handler method in our
services. So what's happening there is
we're returning back this value here.
What we wanna do is make that a .. and we
can get rid of this to do.
And I get DevTools installed. So I'm
doing a build and we can see that the
Spring Context has restarted. Now let's
come over here to Postman. We'll send this
again and now you can see that I am
getting back that Resource Not Found and
a status of 404 Not Found. So
a much more friendly error message
coming back for us. Now there's a couple
things I wanna point out here. In our
handler, we saw that just returned back a
String. We could handle this a lot
differently. We could provide a rich
JSON object for our use and provide the
client more, and we'll probably do that
once we get to validation. I'll show you
how to return back a more rich error
message to the client. But this is pretty
simple. And there are several different
ways to handle this. We could have
handled this through just us through the
controller itself by adding an exception
handler to the controller. But in this
case, I want to add this in for both
controllers. So now we have a single
ExceptionHandler, that's gonna handle
either case for us. So it should work out
fairly nice for us.